Story Recapped here. Today, I'm going to
explain an action, fantasy, thriller film
called “Underworld: Rise of the Lycans.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Two decades after the creation of vampires
and werewolves, a war began. The werewolves
grow in numbers as they could now infect
others, turning them into werewolves. Viktor,
leader of the vampires, created a legion
to protect them from werewolves. One day,
a baby named Lucian was born from the
werewolves. Over the years, Lucian grew
stronger than the others. Lucian was the first
Lycan, a hybrid between werewolf and human.
Viktor then used Lucian to breed more
Lycans, turning them into immortal slaves.
Years later, a council meeting takes place.
Coloman, Viktor’s advisor, informs Viktor that
the human nobles are upset with the werewolves.
Viktor doesn’t care and shrugs any idea of helping
the humans. Meanwhile, a rider in patrol is being
chased by wolves in the woods. She kills two of
them as she makes her way back to the castle. She
reaches the castle, and this alarms Lucian and the
vampires. Lucian takes his crossbow and shoots the
remaining wolves down. The rider reveals herself
to be Sonja, Viktor’s daughter. Sonja insults
Lucian, and Viktor tells Sonja to be more grateful
to the man who saved her. Sonja tells them that
she needed no saving and dismisses herself.
Viktor then tells Sonja that she missed
the council. Sonja gives an excuse,
but Viktor reminds her to stay in the castle and
do her duty as a council member. Viktor wants
Sonja to be more political, ruthless, and cunning
like him, and above all, loyal to no one but him.
Outside, the Lycans are working as slaves.
One of them gets tired and takes a break.
Kosta, the overseer, sees this and instantly whips
him, telling him to keep working. Lucian comes and
stops Kosta. Kosta insults Lucian, calling him the
master’s dog, and curses him before walking away.
Back at the council, Coloman informs Viktor
that the werewolves are being more ruthless
than before. Viktor reminds him that the
Lycans protect them. Coloman agrees but
also reminds him about the human nobles,
suggesting to Viktor that they protect
them. Coloman further suggests that they
should use the Lycans to patrol at day.
Viktor thinks this to be preposterous as
he thinks the Lycans only as savage beasts.
Coloman proceeds to go into detail, telling him
that they should create a privileged class of
Lycans with better food and quarters and let
Lucian lead them. He then calls on Sonja to
hear her thoughts, but Viktor sees Sonja
has not attended the council once again.
Viktor tells Tannis to find Sonja and tells
Coloman that he will consider his suggestion.
Meanwhile, the Lycans are now being dismissed
from work. Lucian, however, sneaks towards an
underground passage through a trapdoor and makes
his way to an abandoned part of the castle.
There he meets Sonja, and the two immediately get
passionate with one another. Afterward, Lucian
tells Sonja that he wants to leave, and invites
her to join him. Lucian shows Sonja his self-made
key to unbind his shackle. Sonja tells him not to
do it, but Lucian makes his point clear, telling
her that the way the Lycans are treated is unfair.
He must leave, but he can’t do it without Sonja.
Tannis is still looking for Sonja. He checks her
bed, but she wasn’t there. He roams around the
castle until he sees Lucian and Sonja together.
Tannis reports to Viktor but doesn’t tell him
about Sonja and Lucian. Instead, he lies and tells
Viktor that Sonja won’t answer from her room.
Tannis then tells Viktor that they should
prepare for the nobles are arriving.
The humans arrive at the rendezvous point
in the woods, and the patrol fires a flare
to signal their arrival. Sonja sees the signal and
prepares to intercept them. Lucian hands Sonja her
sword but asks her to let someone else go in her
stead as he fears something terrible might happen.
Sonja is insistent that she can handle herself and
tells him that he can watch her from the walls.
On the way out, Tannis also
stops her on Viktor’s command,
but Sonja doesn’t listen and heads out with
her men. Tannis then approaches Lucian,
telling him to be careful in keeping his secret.
Lucian realizes that Tannis knows about them.
Sonja arrives at the woods and intercepts the
humans. But suddenly, the wolves make their
presence known. Lucian senses that the attack
will overwhelm Sonja and tries to send some
troops to aid her, but they disobey his command,
so he steals a horse and immediately heads out.
Sonja and the humans get ambushed by wolves. The
wolves wipe out the troops and start killing the
human slaves. One of the slaves, Raze, fights
back and defends the slaves. Sonja fights back,
killing werewolves when Lucian arrives to help
them. They retaliate, but a massive pack of
wolves approaches them. Lucian uses the key,
unshackles himself, and turns into a werewolf.
Surprisingly, he is able to command the wolves
to back off. But the rest of the troops arrive
and shoot Lucian in the back. Viktor is with them
and immediately approaches the two. Sonja tries to
reason that Lucian did it to save her. But Viktor
is furious that Lucian and Sonja disobeyed him.
He tells Lucian that he will now be treated
like a slave. Sonja tries to stop her father,
but Viktor shuts her, and they head back. Tannis
sees and picks up the shackle and observes it.
Back at the castle, the council gathers outside
to witness Lucian’s punishment. Viktor tells
Lucian that he has regretted raising him for his
betrayal and tells Kosta to lash him thirty times.
The lashing begins. Sonja listens in distress
to her secret lover’s agony. Viktor walks away,
and Coloman follows, telling him to stop the
punishment for Lucian is their protector.
Viktor shows no sympathy, calling them beasts.
Coloman warns him that it could potentially
stir the other Lycans. Viktor doesn’t listen and
proves that the Lycans cannot be trusted at all.
After the punishment, the guards
take Lucian to the dungeon. There,
Raze sees Lucian significantly injured,
feels sorry, and gives him water to drink.
Viktor approaches Sonja and is curious
why she was concerned for Lucian, a slave.
Sonja reminds Viktor that he told her to
be more grateful to the one who saved her
and asks why he was not grateful
to the one who saved his daughter.
Viktor tells her that he reserves no gratitude
nor sentiment to those who break his rule.
In prison, Lucian commends Raze for his bravery in
the fight against the wolves. Lucian then asks if
Raze was afraid of the wolves, to which he replies
he was, but he wanted to live. Lucian reassures
Raze that he is not like them and explains
that werewolves are mindless savage beasts,
unlike a Lycan like him. Raze then tells him
that the wolves obeyed him, which leaves Lucian
wondering why. Sonja then secretly makes her
way to the dungeon and meets Lucian apologizing,
blaming herself. Lucian tells her that it’s not
her fault and tells her that he has to leave.
He then tells Sonja that Tannis knows about the
two of them. Sonja wonders how but Lucian suspects
that Tannis has not told Viktor yet and must want
something, so he tells Sonja to find out what.
At the dungeon, the guards give the Lycans
food and make fun of them, calling them dogs.
When the guards leave, Lucian tells the
Lycans to stop bickering as they are not
animals. Lucian could not take it anymore, so
he stirs the Lycans, telling them that it’s
finally time for them to stop being treated
like animals, and start acting like Lycans.
At the council chamber, Viktor tells Sonja
that he will execute Lucian for fear that he
might stir the other Lycans. Later that night,
Sonja ambushes Tannis and pins him to a wall,
asking him if he has told Viktor
anything. Tannis says he hasn’t,
so Sonja asks why he told Viktor nothing.
Tannis explains that reporting to Viktor
about his daughter consorting with a Lycan
might risk his own life. Tannis then tells
her that he plans to use this information for his
own benefit that he wants to be on the council.
Sonja bargains that if Tannis helps them and
keeps the secret, she will give up her seat.
The guards then take Lucian somewhere private.
There he meets Sonja with Tannis’ help.
Sonja immediately tells Lucian that
Viktor plans to kill him the next day
and tells him to leave at sunrise when
Viktor and the patrol guards are asleep.
Sonja will keep her father company, but they
plan to meet in three days after sunset.
They kiss each other goodbye, and Sonja leaves.
The guard then takes Lucian back to his prison.
Later on, the guards take the humans out to
finally turn them into Lycans. Lucian wishes
Raze well on his way out. Out of the blue, Tannis
approaches Lucian from above and tells him to be
ready when things change. He then gives Lucian a
key to his shackles as a parting gift and leaves.
The humans are now turned into Lycans
and are brought back into the cell.
Lucian explains that they are going to
be used for the vampires’ protection.
Raze tells him that he’d rather die, but Lucian
explains his plan to escape and invites them to
come with him. He continues that there is
life waiting for them outside the castle.
Raze and the others agree to go
with him than stay and serve.
Dawn is upon them, and the time has come. Kosta
goes into the dungeon to check on the new Lycans,
but they tell him that Lucian has escaped.
This prompts Kosta to check Lucian’s cell,
opening it, and to his demise, Lucian, in
werewolf form, ambushes him and kills him.
He then reverts to human form and rallies all
the Lycans and starts releasing everyone. They
then begin their escape, overwhelming the guards
in the dungeon, and releasing the other Lycans.
They make their way outside, but one of them
makes a noise, alerting the troops. On the run,
the guards fire a barrage of ballista at them,
killing some of the Lycans. Lucian and the others
maneuver around, but the troops focus fires at
the door and trap most of the Lycans behind. Raze
desperately tries to help, but Lucian tells him
it’s useless and promises the trapped Lycans that
he will come back for them. Lucian and the others
find the exit, but two guards intercept them. So
with all of Lucian’s might, he rams both guards,
pushing them outside the castle, and basking them
in burning sunlight. The rest of the remaining
Lycans follow, and they head for the woods.
Viktor investigates the dungeon where they find
Kosta’s dead body and see Lucian’s shackles.
Viktor interrogates Tannis and asks where the key
to the shackle is, and he responds that it’s in
the armory. Viktor then asks how the shackled
is open, to which Tannis claims he has no idea.
Viktor threatens to kill Tannis, but he
pleads and tells Viktor to check the armory.
In the armory, Tannis nervously checks
where he placed the key and finds it.
This makes Viktor conclude that Lucian must
have made another key and spares Tannis.
Outside, Lucian tells his brethren that
they will go back to save the other Lycans.
Lucian then asks to Raze to lead them to
the noble’s estate with who he was with.
Raze agrees, and they raid the place. After
the raid, Lucian frees some slaves and lets
them choose to fight with him or not,
promising immortality to those who join
him. The Lycans now grow in numbers, and Lucian
commands Raze to free more slaves to join him.
Lucian leaves and entrusts the Lycans under Raze’s
command. In the middle of the night, Lucian finds
a cave and enters. He finds himself in the
den of the werewolves and meets their leader.
That same night, Viktor finds the tunnel Lucian
uses to meet Sonja secretly. He then investigates
the tunnel and eventually came to a horrifying
conclusion. Viktor then enters Sonja’s room and
meets her there. Viktor talks about Lucian
telling her how he could’ve been anything.
Suddenly, Viktor asks Sonja if she helped
him escape. Sonja strongly denies it,
but Viktor bites her neck, revealing her memories
to him. Viktor is furious and slaps her. Viktor is
in complete disbelief. Sonja tells him that
she loves Lucian, further angering Viktor.
He feels betrayed by the person he loved more than
anything. Viktor leaves and locks her in her room.
Viktor heads back to the council and learns
of what Lucian did to the other estates.
Coloman tells Viktor that he needs to bring
Lucian back before anything could get worse.
But Viktor tells them that he need not do
anything for Lucian will surely return to Sonja.
Lucian returns to the camp and wonders
why Sonja hasn’t arrived yet. Suddenly,
a girl on a horse arrives. Lucian thought it to
be Sonja, but to his disappointment, it was Luka
who tells him that Sonja has been arrested. This
prompts Lucian to hurry back to the castle alone.
Raze tries to stop him, for they might lose their
men. Lucian then tells him that Raze will be in
charge until he returns or leads them if he
doesn’t return and runs back to the castle.
Lucian arrives outside the walls and sneaks his
way in. He sneaks past more guards and silently
ambushes the two men guarding Sonja’s
room. Lucian and Sonja finally reunite,
and they immediately make a run for it. They
head for the secret tunnel they used. Viktor
was immediately notified of this escape but he
already anticipated this. While on the tunnel,
Lucian and Sonja see an explosive barrel falling
from above and a torch along with it, causing
an explosion that blocks their way. It turns
out Viktor and his men blocking their escape.
Lucian and Sonja desperately try to escape, but
they eventually got cornered, leaving them with
no other choice but to fight. They kill a few
men but Lucian gets outnumbered and Sonja faces
Viktor himself. The two fight fiercely but
Sonja gets the upper hand and disarms Viktor.
Viktor tells her that killing him is futile.
Sonja begs to let them go and declares that she
is pregnant with Lucian’s child. She calls this
a miracle a union between vampires and Lycans.
But Viktor is disgusted and curses her very
birth. Viktor then cunningly pulls a knife
and disarms Sonja, calling the fight over. Viktor
tells Sonja that he only wanted to catch Lucian
and disregard her disobedience but because
of the baby, she too will now be punished.
At the dungeon, Lucian starts regretting
his actions, but Sonja tells him that
he was right all along. Lucian feels
that he failed her but Sonja reminds
him that they both made their decisions
and took their own risks for each other.
Suddenly, the guards take Sonja away, making
Lucian furious until one of the guards shoots him,
knocking him out. They then take Lucian to the
council for Sonja’s trial. Coloman recalls all
of her crimes and claims them to be unforgivable,
declaring death as the punishment. He calls on a
vote to which the majority of the council agrees,
now waiting for Viktor’s vote. Viktor and Sonja’s
stares are intensely fixed at each other. But
unfortunately, Viktor agrees and they take Sonja
for execution. Lucian desperately pleads to Viktor
but they take him away, unable to do anything.
They then chain Sonja at a stake in the execution
chamber and in front of her they chain Lucian.
The council enters and Viktor immediately
commands the guard to lash Lucian again.
Sonja watches in despair as her lover suffers.
Lucian is down so Viktor ends the lash,
looks at her daughter’s reaction, and leaves
along with the council. The lovers are left
with nothing but each other, feeling nothing
but sorrow. Suddenly, the ceiling slowly opens.
Terrified, Lucian tells Sonja to keep her eyes
on him and him only. Unable to do anything,
the lovers could only stare and say they love each
other and as the ceiling fully opens, Sonja bids
goodbye. Sunlight enters and Sonja burns. Lucian
wails at the excruciating sight of Sonja’s death
and mourns deeply. At Sonja’s room, Viktor hears
Lucian’s cry and mourns his daughter’s loss.
Later that night, Viktor enters the chamber and
looks at his dead daughter. Lucian is enraged
at the sight of Viktor. Viktor notices him and
immediately tells his men to fetch his knives.
But as the moonlight shines upon Lucian, he
transforms into a wolf and assaults Viktor.
Viktor’s troops enter the room so Lucian jumps
out of the window and tries to make an escape.
He reaches atop the walls but the troops slow him
down, firing harpoons at him. The troops intend to
finish the weakened Lycan so they shoot arrows
at him. However, this prompts Lucian to let out
a loud roar, so loud that it reaches his brethren
in the woods. This goes on until a soldier shoots
him and knocks him down. But it was too late. The
ground starts to shake and a feeling of uneasiness
reaches Viktor. The roar had signaled the entire
pack of wolves to attack the castle and with them,
his Lycan brethren. An all-out war has begun.
The vampires prepare to defend themselves,
manning the walls and shooting ballistae. But
it is futile, the wolves outnumber the vampires,
and eventually, they reach the wall, beginning
the slaughter. The council attempts to run but
the wolves reach them and kill them one by
one. Raze reaches the wall and finds Lucian
heavily injured. He helps him remove the arrows
and gives him clothing. Lucian tells him to
free the other Lycans first. Raze then frees
the slaves and they join him in the fight.
Viktor, prepared for battle, is on his way
out when he finds Tannis trying to salvage
his scrolls. He then stops Tannis and tells him
to go to the Elders instead. Viktor and his men
then join the fight. Lucian has now recovered and
sets his eyes on Viktor. He joins the fight and
approaches Viktor. Viktor sees him coming so he
jumps on one of the holes leading to the dungeont.
Lucian then chases after him. While this was all
happening, Tannis had just finish securing the
Elders’ coffins in a boat and slowly makes
rows his out. Lucian finds himself in the
dungeon when suddenly Viktor tries to attack him
by surprise. Lucian barely retaliates and falls.
Viktor tells Lucian that he defiled and killed his
daughter to which Lucian yells that he loved her.
Viktor then jumps down and the swordfight
continues until Lucian tackles and pins
Viktor down. Viktor grabs a random shackle
on his side, hits him, and kicks him back.
Viktor runs towards the sewers and Lucian
jumps down, knocking Viktor down the stairway.
Lucian picks up his sword and jumps on one of the
chains but Viktor cuts the chain causing Lucian to
fall on the stairs. But Lucian notices that the
ceiling that holds the chains were crumbling,
revealing sunlight. So Lucian pulls the chain
hard to let the sunlight enter burning Viktor
as he uses the chains to go down faster. Lucian
then chains the disoriented vampire. Viktor
provokes Lucian telling him that he should’ve
just killed him on the day he was born.
Lucian agrees but stabs Viktor in the
mouth and reminds him of his mistake.
Lucian then pushes the vampire off the stairs
and Viktor falls down the water as he burns.
The fight is now over and Lucian heads
out of the castle to meet his brethren
in the morning who just won the battle
against the vampires. Raze tells Lucian
that the fighting is now over. But Lucian
acknowledges that the war has only just begun.
Unbeknownst to them, Tannis has escaped with the
ship along with the Elders. And on that ship,
Viktor survived and as they escape, Viktor
secures himself in one of the coffins.
In the far future, voices narrate the
events of what happened centuries ago,
the truth about Viktor causing
the demise of the vampires,
and his precious daughter who he condemned to
death. And now, in the midst of a stormy night,
sitting at a window of a skyscraper balcony is a
woman in black bearing a face similar to Sonja.